[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
naga manchetti
and charlie state our headlines today
mps announced another inquiry into the
green sill lobbying round
former prime minister david cameron says
he'll respond positively to requests for
him to give evidence
the white policewoman who fatally shot
black motorist dante wright in minnesota
is charged with second-degree
manslaughter
a full military rehearsal will be held
here behind windsor castle's walls
and the full guest list announced as
preparations for the funeral of the duke
of edinburgh continue
good morning work more earn less or lose
your job
hundreds of british gas engineers are
out of work after refusing to sign
new contracts it is the latest firm
accused of using
fire and rehire schemes good morning
liverpool are out of the champions
league
but manchester city are through to the
semi-finals a thunderous strike from
phil foden gives city the win over
borussia dortmund and
keeps them on track for a quadruple
good morning from langleywood part of
heartwood forest
and you can see it's beautiful here in
sin alban's lovely sunrise
but it's minus five it's a cold start
across the board with some frost a lot
of sunshine
more showers today in the southeastern
quarter of the uk
out of all the details in 10 minutes
[Music]
good morning it's thursday the 15th of
april our top story is that david
cameron says he will respond
positively to any requests for him to
give evidence to the lobbying inquiry
into green sale
the former prime minister has faced
criticism for contacting ministers
in an attempt to win financial support
for the firm before it collapsed
it sparked a wide arow over prior
companies attempts at influencing
government
our political correspondent helen kat
has this report
the way david cameron used his contacts
with ministers on behalf of the
businessman who employed him lex
greensill
sparked a row about lobbying that's
dominated westminster for days
yesterday conservative mps voted against
setting up a special
parliamentary investigation so the nose
have it the nose have it but an existing
committee of mps will look into at least
some of it green sill capital has since
collapsed
the treasury select committee will look
into the lessons that can be learnt from
that
and how the treasury itself responded to
lobbying on the firm's behalf
it's thought other committees might do
the same and one of them is likely to
ask david cameron to give evidence
his spokesman said he would respond
positively to any such requests when the
terms of reference were clear
the controversy is likely to come up
again today in parliament
lord pickles who chairs the body which
vets jobs ministers and senior officials
can take when they leave government
is due to appear before mps it's been
planned for a while
but earlier this week he expressed
concerns when it emerged that a senior
civil servant bill cruthers had been
allowed to work part-time for green sill
in 2015 while still doing his government
job
the most senior civil servants in the
country simon case has told the heads of
all departments they have to declare by
the end of the week
if any of their officials have second
jobs like this
none of this affects the review
announced by boris johnson into the
links between green sill and government
that's being led by a lawyer whom the
prime minister says will have free reign
to speak to whoever he needs to
the evidence will be heard privately but
it's due to report the result in june
helen katt bbc news a white police
officer who shot dead a black motorist
in minnesota has been charged with
second-degree manslaughter police say
kim potter
shot dante wright accidentally having
mistakenly drawn her gun
instead of her taser she resigned after
his death
robert plett usher has more
protesters have been demanding justice
for dante wright
but the manslaughter charge against the
policewoman who killed him wasn't good
enough for them
they wanted it to be murder and so
another faced off with police
the fourth night of unrest
[Applause]
kim potter had already resigned before
she was arrested and booked into the
county jail
a bitter end to 26 years in the force
she was actually training a new officer
when they stopped mr wright because of
an expired car registration
they discovered a previous warrant for
his arrest and he tried to flee
the police department said she attempted
to tase him but mistakenly drew her gun
the civil rights attorney who represents
the wright family called this an
unlawful use of force not an accident
all this training at what point did you
not feel that this was a gun in your
hand
versus a taser this has amplified
tensions around the trial of derrick
chauvin
who's charged with killing george floyd
the latest witness was for the defense
he said mr floyd died of medical
complications rather than the force of
mr chauvin's knee on his neck
all the defense needs to do is establish
doubt that the former policeman is
guilty
and only in the mind of one juror the
jury is expected to begin consideration
early next week
barbara plattascher bbc news minneapolis
northern ireland is expected to announce
plans later to allow hairdressers to
reopen
a week from tomorrow under the proposed
timetable non-essential shops would also
reopen at the end of the month
unlike the rest of the uk northern
ireland has yet to publish a road map
out of lockdown four in five rapid
coronavirus tests taken in the last
month appear to have returned a correct
result this is according to latest
figures from public health england
there had been concerns about the
reliability of lateral flow tests
but scientists say the latest results
show they can be a valuable tool in
controlling the pandemic
the tests are now available for free to
everyone in england while a similar
scheme will be introduced in scotland
from the end of the month
introducing so-called coronavirus
vaccine passports
could amount to unlawful discrimination
that's the warning from the equalities
watchdog
government in england is considering
introducing the coveted status
certificates for entry to some
events and venues but the equalities and
human rights commission says the scheme
risks creating a two-tier society
instagram has apologized after a mistake
with its algorithm promoted diet content
to users
with eating disorders the search
function in the app automatically
recommended terms including
appetite suppressants and fasting for
some people
eating disorder campaigners say the
mistake could cause vulnerable people to
relapse
the social media platform said harmful
terms have now been
removed the royal family has released
new photographs of the duke of edinburgh
including one
of he and the queen alongside their
great grandchildren
it comes as preparations continue for
his funeral on saturday which will take
place at st george's chapel in the
grounds of windsor castle
charlotte wright has more cuddles with
great granny and great grandpa
and a cheeky wave from princess
charlotte
this image taken by the duchess of
cambridge in 2018
is one of a series of photos released by
the royal family
following the death of the duke of
edinburgh the previously unpublished
snapshots revealed precious family
memories
here with his son prince charles playing
polo in 1966
and again 45 years on at the wedding of
the duke and duchess of cambridge
the royal family said the photos
remember prince philip as a father
grandfather and great-grandfather
princess eugenie shared her own tribute
on social media
referring to her dearest grandpa she
said
thank you for your dedication and love
for us all and especially granny
who we will look after for you archive
images have also been published of the
duke enjoying a favorite pastime
here with his daughter princess anne at
cows week in 1970.
he was a keen sailor serving as
president of the royal yachting
association twice between 1956
and 1980.
[Music]
the photos have been released as
preparations continue for the funeral on
saturday
which will be a much more low-key event
due to the pandemic
just 30 people will be allowed to attend
the service inside st
george's chapel in windsor but
buckingham palace says the plans reflect
prince philip's wishes a more intimate
goodbye
to a much loved husband father
grandfather
and great-grandfather charlotte wright
bbc news
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app
and get the full story with bbc dot co
dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news